little bit cagey about this because of
fears about public confidence but do you
worry that the present situation is
itself undermining public confidence I'm
sorry I can't get you to answer because
here is the primary thank you so much
good evening welcome to the latest
dynasty press conference
let me first run you through the latest
data on our coronavirus response four
million seven hundred and eighty six
thousand two hundred nineteen test for
coronavirus have now been carried out or
posted out in the UK including one
hundred and seventy one thousand eight
hundred and twenty nine tests yesterday
two hundred and seventy nine thousand
eight hundred and fifty six people have
tested positive and that's an increase
of 1871 cases since yesterday seven
thousand four hundred and eighty five
people are in hospital with kovat
nineteen in the UK down 16% from 8921
this time last week and sadly of those
who tested positive for coronavirus
across all settings thirty-nine thousand
seven hundred and twenty eight have now
died that's an increase of three hundred
and fifty-nine fatalities since
yesterday and once again we are with
their families in mourning
now that the rate of transmission in the
UK has fallen significantly from its
peak we need to take steps to manage the
flare-ups and stop the virus from
re-emerging I want to update you on the
progress we're making on three fronts to
prevent a second wave of infections that
could overwhelm the NHS first we've set
up NHS tests and trace in order to
identify contain and control the virus
in the UK thereby reducing its spread as
we move to the next stage of our fight
against a corona virus we'll be able to
replace national lock downs with
individual isolation and if necessary
local action
where there are outbreaks NHS test and
trace will be vital to controlling the
spread of the virus it's how we will be
able to protect our friends and family
from infection and protect our NHS and
it does this by identifying anyone who's
been in close contact with someone who's
tested positive asking them to isolate
for 14 days in order to avoid
unknowingly infecting others and the
system clearly it relies on everyone
playing their part so I want to stress
again today we need you to get a test if
you have corona virus symptoms a high
temperature a new continuous cough or a
loss of taste or smell there is plenty
of capacity and everyone with symptoms
is eligible el every everyone with
symptoms so please order a test from NHS
dot UK forward slash coronavirus as soon
as you develop symptoms and we need you
to isolate yourself if a contact tracer
tells you that you have been in contact
with someone who's tested positive NHS
tests and Crais started operating a week
ago and already thousands of people are
isolating who wouldn't have been doing
so before this service was introduced
and they are thereby protecting others
and reducing the spread of the virus so
while we're going to all these efforts
here in the UK to control the virus we
must also ensure we don't reimpose the
virus from abroad so the second action I
want to update you on is the
introduction of public health measures
at the border today
the Home Secretary has brought forward
the legislation needed to establish the
new regime from Monday and I want to
explain the reasons for introducing
these measures now when coronavirus
started to spread around the world
first from Wuhan and then from northern
Italy and other areas we introduced
enhanced monitoring at the border in an
attempt
to stop the virus from gaining a
foothold in the UK these measures
applied at various different times to
arrivals from China Japan Iran and Italy
and required people with symptoms
traveling from those countries to self
isolate for 14 days however once
community transmission was widespread
within the UK cases from abroad made up
a tiny proportion of the total at the
same time you'll remember international
travel plummeted as countries around the
world went into lockdown so as a result
measures at the border were halted
because they made little difference at
the time in our fight against the virus
now that we're getting the virus under
control in the UK there is a risk that
cases from abroad begin once again to
make up a greater proportion of overall
cases we therefore need to take steps
now to manage that risk of these
imported cases triggering a second peak
so just as we're asking people already
in the UK to isolate for 14 days when
contacted by an HS test and trace we're
also asking those arriving from abroad
to isolate so that they don't
unknowingly spread the virus and there
will be some exemptions for a limited
number of people who need to cross the
border such as those engaged directly in
the fight against coronavirus or who
provide essential services and we will
review how the policy is working after
three weeks and of course we will
explore the possibility of international
travel corridors with countries that
have low risks of low rates of infection
but only when the evidence shows that it
is safe to do so the third point I want
to make today is we need effective
international action to reduce the
impact of the virus across the globe and
this is the the moment really for
Humanity to unite in the fight against
the disease health experts have warned
that if coronavirus
is left to spread in developing
countries that could lead to future ways
of infection coming back and reaching
the UK while our amazing NHS has been
there for everyone in this country who
needs it many developing countries have
health care systems which are
ill-prepared to manage this pandemic so
to ensure that the world's poorest
countries have the support they need to
slow the spread of the virus
tomorrow I will open the global vaccine
summit hosted by the UK and will bring
together more than 50 countries and
leading figures like Bill Gates to raise
at least at least seven point four
billion dollars for Gaddy the vaccine
alliance over the next five years with
the UK's supporters Gabby's biggest
donor this vaccine Alliance aims to
immunize a further 300 million children
in the poorest countries against deadly
diseases like polio typhoid and measles
again saving millions of lives this
support for routine immunizations will
shore up poorer countries healthcare
systems to deal with coronavirus and so
help to stop the global spread and as I
say prevent a second wave of the virus
reaching the UK this virus has shown how
connected we are were fighting an
invisible enemy and no one is safe
frankly until we're all safe and again
of course this is all contingent upon
each of us continuing to do our bit and
and as I never tire of telling you let
us not forget the basics wash your hands
regularly and for 20 seconds
wash your hands do not gather in groups
of more than six outside always observe
social distancing keeping two media's
apart from anyone outside your household
and I want to stress one final point
which may be relevant today as that as
the weather threatens I think to take a
turn for the worse some of you may be
tempted to move the gatherings you've
been enjoying
outdoors indoors out of the frame I
really urge you don't do that we relaxed
the rules on meeting outside for a very
specific reason because the evidence
shows that the risks of transmission are
much lower outdoors much lower outdoors
and the risks of passing on the virus is
significantly higher indoors which is
why gatherings inside other people's
homes are still prohibited breaking
these rules now could undermine and
reverse all the progress that we've made
together I've no doubt that that won't
happen I've no doubt that we're down I
think the British public will continue
to show the same resolve in fighting the
virus as they have throughout this
outbreak we will get through this if we
stay alert control the virus and in
doing so save lives
and with that I'll now hand over to
Patrick thank you now the first slide
please
this is the slide of new cases and as
you can see there is a steady downward
detection of new cases through testing
so as of today 1871 today it's worth
noting though that as I've said before
this is picking up those who are tested
and what we estimate from the office for
national statistics household survey is
the true number will be higher than this
and it could be somewhere around eight
thousand a day so this reinforces the
point that we need to make sure we're
picking up more people through testing
to get closer to that number
the second thing to say is that because
the our stays relatively close to one
that means that this is not coming down
fast and so we have relatively large
numbers still not coming down fast and
I'll reiterate what I said last Thursday
that gives relatively little room for
maneuver it means we have to tread very
cautiously as we go forward but new
cases are coming down next slide please
as we've seen previously that's
reflected in admissions to hospital also
decreasing the slide for England there
and of course the number of people on
mechanical ventilators in beds in
hospital coming down across the Four
Nations but as you will see some
variability with some ups and downs
along the way but everything moving in
the right direction slowly but with a
long tail and as I said the number of
cases remains relatively high not coming
down fast and the are quite close to one
next slide please
number of people in hospitals of course
also coming down again sharper in some
places and other in terms the decline
and with a relatively long tail this
will carry on for a little while longer
but the cases are coming down and as you
would expect next slide please
the number of deaths follows that
pattern with again and this is good to
see a decrease which is coming day on
day but this also has this long tail
it's not coming down as fast as we'd
like it to come down it's likely to
carry on for a bit longer and it's worth
reflecting that the people most affected
by this have been the elderly but also
those from black Asian minority ethnic
groups as highlighted in the public
health England report and those with
other risk factors including other
diseases diabetes and so on so we need
to keep vigilant the numbers are in the
right direction things are getting
better they are coming down but we have
to stick with the rules of distancing we
all have to do it when we all do it then
we have a chance of getting this down
further which is what we need to do
especially over the summer before we
then reach another period in the winter
we're entering the winter with the
highest with the lowest numbers we can
possibly get would be the best thing to
do thanks very much Patrick we'll go
straight
now to questions from the public then to
questions from the media first
- Amy from Brighton Spain recorded no
new deaths over the last two days
despite a wide range of freedom across
the country over the last three weeks a
new cases continue to build however
there has been no evidence of a second
wave given this evidence why is there
concern over a second wave in the UK at
how closely at a UK government liaison
with the Spanish government really an
excellent question I'm obviously we're
learning everything we can from
governments around the world but I think
probably I should defer to to Patrick
and Chris for comment on epidemiology in
in Spain well it's a great question and
it's fantastic news that numbers are
coming down across Europe and have come
down to low levels in Spain it's also
the case that if you look in other
countries they are beginning to see
outbreaks as measures are relaxed that's
true we've seen outbreaks reported in
South Korea there have been outbreaks
reported in parts of Germany as measures
are relaxed and so what's happened is
that the first peak has been suppressed
and as the measures are released there's
a danger that that comes back there's
also a risk that there's a second peak
that comes as a wave goes across the
world so we're not out of this yet it is
good news that as measures are being
relaxed people are generally seeing
numbers continued to go down and that is
obviously what we would hope for here
that as the steps that are being taken
cautiously and we're measuring that we
will continue to see numbers going down
Chrissa don't if you want to add
anything but thanks very much thanks
thanks I'm a very important thought
there though that there could be a
second wave across the world as though
the the pandemic you know has had its
own kinetic forces in it in itself it's
possible that there could just be a
second pulse of this disease that is
possible that's quite common so quite
often with new epidemics you get more
than one wave before they're completely
doing their
bad word so or more reason to keep going
with that with with the measures that we
have can we go to Tony from from
Manchester Tony from Manchester asks and
myself and my husband are going back to
work our children are not in the age
groups to go back what help is there for
parents with no childcare options and
all I can say Tony I really do
understand the you know how you feel it
is it is it is must be very frustrating
that you know you're you're not in the
in the group of that able to send that
their children back first and as
everybody knows it's it's early years
reception year one and year six but we
hope to get more primary school children
back we as you know year 10 and year 12
are going to get some contact with their
teachers the best the best we can do
right now for you Tony is to is to keep
supporting you through the the furlough
scheme through the coronavirus job
retention scheme through all the ways
that we've been trying to to help
families when it comes to specific child
care options and what may what may be
available I I think you really need to
to look at our our coronavirus website
and see what we're doing to support
specifically with child care what we are
doing is doing a huge amount to to
support families in terms of their their
income and their basic inability to go
back to working as I said several times
you know obviously employers have to be
have to be reasonable and if someone
can't get childcare then that is clearly
a reason for them not to be able to go
back to work but we want to do
everything we can to help you with child
care if we can anyway well we'll try and
we'll try and get more schools back in
in due course but it is I'm afraid all
conditional on making progress in
fighting that virus let's go to
questions from journalists tom barrage
from the BBC
thank you very much Prime Minister and
should anyone be booking a holiday
anywhere in Europe right now what's your
assessment our holidays abroad this
summer going to happen and what do you
say to someone who's paid the deposit on
their holiday and now has to decide
whether they pay the full amount or
cancel and two questions to the sciences
please and can you honestly look the
British public in the eye and tell them
that if a quarantine like this had have
been put in place at weeks ago it would
not have helped save lives and also um
did sage recommend introducing these
measures right now right Tom first of
all look I'm not going to to give advice
on individuals travel arrangements but
you know what the Foreign Office
guidance is the guidance is Arab
everybody at the moment should avoid
non-essential travel everybody should
avoid non-essential travel we've gotta
knock this virus on the head in terms of
the quarantine rules that we're bringing
in the reason for doing that as I said
just now is we want to stop the
possibility of a reinfection from from
abroad that's the that's you know the
vital consideration as we get the
disease down the the sage advice from
the experts in this area is that the
measures like this are most effective
when the incidence the number of cases
in this country is very low and they're
most effective when they're applied to
countries with higher rates that's the
advice that was given from Sage and
that's the advice that would have been
true a few weeks ago when obviously the
levels were not very low here and the
transmission within the community was
the highest source of infection so the
recommendation that came from the
science was that this measure of control
is most effective at those times crisper
than what dad
thanks very much Tom that's good at Beth
Reba Sky News Thank You Prime Minister
tens of thousands of people have
gathered in central London many outside
number 10 Downing Street deeply upset
and disturbed by the brutal killing of
George George Floyd they don't have the
chance to speak to the President of the
United States but you do what is your
message to President Trump on their
behalf and a question to the scientists
please I've got the coronavirus alert
system right here and it says at level 4
transmission is high and social
distancing continues and it says when we
move to level 3 there's a gradual easing
of restrictions so I'm a bit confused
we're at level 4 in terms of the alert
level but the relaxed relaxation of
restrictions is already starting is that
not a cause for concern well first of
all definitely answer your question
about about George Floyd and we mourn
George Floyd and I was appalled and and
sickened to see what what happened to
him and my message to to President Trump
to everybody in the United States from
from the UK is that I don't think racism
all or race and either it's an opinion
I'm sure it's shared by the overwhelming
majority of people around the world with
racism racist violence has no place in
our society and you mentioned the
demonstrations Beth I all I would say is
I do think people have a right to
protest to make their feelings known
about injustice is such as as what as
what happened to to George Floyd I would
urge people to protest peacefully and in
accordance with the rules on social
distancing everybody's lives matter
black lives matter but we must fight
this virus as well so there were two
separate things which I think people are
getting conflated together
there's the alert level which is set
independently on the instruction of
Ministers independently by the joint
biosecurity Center advising the for
chief medical officers and independently
of that and this is the thing that was
linked to
changes were the five tests that
ministers set that had to be met before
changes could be made and those included
things like protect making sure that the
NHS could be protected and seeing
sustained down movement in deaths five
of those the alert levels are for a
different purpose and the point of the
joint biosecurity Center is very much to
try and help us to map out in some
detail across the UK over time and it's
only just beginning the hotspots and the
areas of the UK where things are moving
more quickly at a higher level than
elsewhere to go back to the Patrick's
earlier point that as we move into a
lower incidence across the country will
increasingly move from a situation where
there is a loss of coronavirus
everywhere in the country to a medium
amount we're trending downwards and the
alert levels were clear for but with a
direction of travel down that was the
unanimous view of the four chief medical
officers on the advice independent
advice of the joint behemoth biosecurity
n2j BC so trending down but really we're
going to move to a situation where we
have a lower level provided we all stick
to the social distancing rules and
absolutely critical we do and we take
things very very slowly for the reasons
that so patrick said right at the
beginning we've really got to take this
slowly we will get to a point where
there were much lower level everywhere
but we will start to get flare-ups and
outbreaks in different parts of the
country and really what the JBC
is primarily going to help us with he's
actually have to identify early those
areas of increased transmission those
hotspots so we can go in and try and
find out how we can actually get on top
of those before they spread more widely
this is very much something we've learnt
from the first few months of this
coronavirus and this is one of the
critical things we need to do thanks
thanks very much Chris Robert Peston
from ITV good afternoon gentlemen
and question for the prime minister
first your predecessor to resume
yesterday said she was deeply concerned
by the way that the quarantines being
housed on travelers to the UK are in her
words closing written off for the rest
of the world and she wants you to take
the lead in developing an international
aviation health screening standards that
would make it unnecessary to have those
kinds of quarantines are you gonna take
your predecessors advice and and and
lead talks on devising such a scheme to
get aviation going again traveling going
again and to the chief scientific
adviser and the chief medical officer
just picking up actually on what Beth
said professor Wendy what are things you
simply just said just now was the point
of the let the the threat levels was to
basically advise for example on when we
can have local lock downs to tackle
outbreaks at the local level but one of
things we know from Dino hardening for
examples in charge of the whole test and
trace process is we're not gonna have
that data for another month which makes
many people concerned that the easing
off of lockdown has happened a month too
early could you just reassure or comment
on that yeah first of all thanks Robert
on your point about what we can do to
make sure that insofar as possible we
allow people to fly safely I mentioned
earlier on the the idea of safe corridor
safe travel between the UK and other
countries with low or similar levels of
infectivity and we'll certainly be
developing that as we go forward one of
the difficulties of about about about
testing is is as you know the risk of an
airport is the risk of false negatives
but on the other matter I'm gonna give
it I'm a quite a long answer to that
because I think it's a really critical
question that people are asking the
thing to understand is this is a
disinfection with which we are going to
have to live alongside
for many months and probably longer than
that we basically got to have a
multi-layered defense against it and at
any given point we can maybe raise some
things and lower others but we're gonna
have to go incredibly cautiously as the
as Sir Patrick said early on and I'm
going to run through all the things that
we have to do because I think it's
important to understand each change in
context so there are group of things we
need to do to isolate those people who
have the virus or might have the virus
and one of the problems with this virus
is that it can be transmitted by people
before they get symptoms so the first
and most important thing is people who
do have symptoms must self isolate
straight away and they must get the test
as the Prime Minister was saying
secondly the people they are most likely
to pass it on to and who could therefore
have the virus without symptoms of their
own household so therefore their
household must not isolate with them and
that has been the case right from the
beginning of this epidemic the new thing
that has been brought in and it is
definitely as you imply in the early
stages of its its development but it is
definitely there and is definitely
working but it'll work a lot better over
time is the new element of test and
trace because the third group of people
who are likely to get this are people
who have actually got a high amount or
high chance of having the virus because
they've come into close contact with
someone of the virus and the test and
trace NHS test and trace model is to
allow us to identify the people who got
cases and then identify their contacts
and ask them to self isolate because
they may have these this without
symptoms and pass it on then there's a
group of things that we need so that's
the first group of things and there's a
group of things we need to do in terms
of reducing transmission at an
individual level and these include
washing hands as the Prime Minister
repeatedly and rightly says absolutely
critical because you can pass it to
yourself and to other people if you're
coughing to make sure that you actually
have no good cough what's called good
cough etiquette
where you use a tissue and dispose of it
properly
the 2-meter rule
which is about trying to ensure that if
you do speak off or make other things
which actually lead to droplets coming
out and you're infected without knowing
it that you don't pass that on and
something which again we brought in
relatively recently the idea that in if
you cannot socially distance at two
meters for a prolonged period moderately
prolonged period then you should use
face cloths and that's one of the things
which is a new thing so those are those
are going to carry on really for as long
as this in fact this epidemic continues
but then we've got the group of things
which are around trying to break the
link between households because that is
where most of the social distancing come
in and those are the things were
absolutely essential trying to reduce
people's social contacts including close
friends and family because actually very
often those are the people who you will
catch this from all the things which
bring people together the things we all
enjoy like clubs pubs clubs and
restaurants and so on these are things
where we needed to close those down
shops were closed down as a way of
ensuring that you came into contact with
as few people who were from different
households and of course the initial
large but not complete closure of
schools now in this group of things
we've really made very very small
changes with the exception of the
schools which has been a small
additional group to the people already
at schools the children of essential
workers almost all the other things are
to do with people meeting outdoors and
asked to be socially distant and that's
because the risk of people being
outdoors
he's very considerably reduced but these
are really modest and slow steps and the
final two things that we have to do is
shielding keeping making sure that the
people who are at greatest risk are away
from the greatest risk of meeting others
with a virus and we made a very small
adjustment to that which is again
because for many people this was
incredibly difficult to maintain to say
what if you're just with a member of
your existing household you can go
outdoors or you can meet someone but at
a distance only one person out door
only these changes in risk are really
very small and then the final one which
it really is important to stress because
it is in the long run the way we're
going to get ourselves out of this is
research finding new drugs finding new
vaccines now the reason I've listed all
of those out is what we're making is
small adjustments to some of these
things but this is a multi-layered
defense and all of us have parts to play
in almost all of these it's absolutely
critical we all do this and so we
shouldn't take the fact that small
adjustments are being made now to imply
that this is suddenly locked down over
what this is is a slight reversal of
some of the most onerous things on
people mainly outdoors at a socially
safe distance that 2 meter distance so
hope that's I know that's a long answer
but I think it is important to put
things in context rather than just see
them as one-off events thanks very much
Robert told me you can dunk in the Sun
thank you
prime minister question first to the CMA
and the CSA if they could possible
answer this one testing capacity we know
tracker traces up and running could you
say what capacity it currently now is at
is it 20% P percent 100% we know it's
not under percent maybe and when do you
expect it to be running at full capacity
full operating capacity and before it
gets to that stage since Angela McLain
has been very clear that having a fully
operating tracking tray system is
crucial to unlocking lockdown are you
comfortable for more measures to be
released such as the opening of shops or
pubs or restaurants and question to the
prime minister this is my last question
to you as the sun's political editor
whose story it's now clear that the
nation will lose a whole load of jobs
many millions of jobs may be lost by the
autumn by Christmas many of those will
be Sun readers properly tens or even
hundreds of thousands are you able to
guarantee to these people none of whom
have lost their jobs through any fault
of their own either new jobs to all of
them or if not help or training to all
of them to better get new jobs again
yeah
I sorry on the testing capacity in a
sense what we've done is play leapfrog
to some extent the capacity goes up then
we run to catch up there are there are
very many more things we could do with
testing with greater capacity and the
key thing we need to do is do that
systematically we obviously started off
with people who had severe disease went
out by stages key workers testing them
if they had symptoms so they could go
back to work in the NHS social care and
other areas and we now got to a
situation where we can test people we've
got symptoms in the general public and
that allows us to run the tests NHS test
and tray system which was not possible
when we had less testing capacity but it
add the more capacity we have the more
different uses we can use for these
testing for people who've got the virus
now and that allows us to do test
screening for example in care homes
screening in hospitals and other things
which would allow us to find the hot
spots that we've got in terms of
infection and and our deal with them but
you're absolutely right we are not yet
at sort of cruising altitude for this
the number of tests is going to carry on
going up and our ability to use the
tests we've got he's going to carry on
going up and this is going to carry on
for quite some time before we get to the
point I think that we're all satisfied
we've got to the point we need there's
the additional point which I'm not going
to go into the details of unless you
really want to run a follow-up or
antibody testing which is an additional
capacity we now have and this can say
reliably whether someone has had the
infection several weeks ago but we don't
know whether it tells us anything useful
about immunity or anything of that sort
but that's the other form of testing and
we're increasing the ability to do both
of those across the UK and just just to
add to that what Angela said is that the
an effective system in place is an
important part of going forward is an
important part of you have to release
measures and as Chris has said it's
being built up but I do want to stress
it's not the single answer so the idea
that somehow having a test and trace
system entertainment absolves ourselves
of all the other things we need to do is
incorrect we need to make sure that we
carry on with the distancing and some of
the other measures in place
in order to control this the lower the
number of cases in the country the more
effective and the higher burden of load
as it were can be carried by test and
trace and making sure people isolate but
on its own it's not the answer it has to
be part of the whole system
Taman your incredibly important point
about what's going to to happen as we as
the months go by and the effect of this
recession starts to bite yet and let's
be in no doubt you of course I'm afraid
tragically there will be many many job
losses and that is just inevitable
because of the effect of this virus on
the economy and because of the because
of the shutdown that has taken place and
like all I can say is that in dealing
with that that fallout from coronavirus
we will be as activist and as
interventionist as we have been
throughout the lock time there's no
other country in the world I think is
has done as much or few others that have
done as much as the UK in terms of
putting our arms around workers with the
furlough scheme looking after companies
that have run into difficulties helping
in any way that we can we will be just
as interventionist in the next phase
investing in the UK economy investing in
infrastructure taking our country
forward so that we bounce back as as as
sharply and as as decisively as we can
that's going to be I approach one thing
I want to say is that for young people
in particular for whom the the risk is I
think a highest of losing jobs in being
out of work for a long time I think it's
gonna be vital that we guarantee
apprenticeships for for young people I
think we must must have a huge it will
have to look after people across the
board but young people in particular I
believe should be guaranteed an
apprenticeship thank you I didn't let
anybody else back Tommy about beacuse of
favours but we know everybody's gonna
wish you well on your on your next job
and after your historic innings as
political editor of the Sun Steve
Swynford of the time
Prime Minister China's role in this
pandemic has been heavily criticized and
you personally raised concerns on our
pages this morning about the impact of
security laws in Hong Kong do you think
we can ever return to business as normal
with China and are you as is being
reported now looking to remove who are
we from Britain's 5g network entirely
from 2023 and stuff Patrick just a brief
question to come back from what tom was
saying earlier you said previously
provided advice or the impact of
quarantine measures did sage provide
specific advice on implementing those
measures on June the 8th as it's being
planned and whether that would doing so
we actually make a significant
difference to the spread of coronavirus
and if it didn't do you personally have
a view on that
well first of all on on Hong Kong I've
said what I've said which is that you're
absolutely right Steve I do think that
what is happening now is potentially
going to be an infringement of the the
sino UK so I know British agreement of
1987 it protects political and civic
freedoms in Hong Kong that looks as
though it could be very very badly
eroded by what is being proposed and so
what we're saying is that we want to
hold out our hand a hand of friendship
and support and loyalty to the people of
Hong Kong I think that's the right thing
to do on on high-risk vendors in our
critical national infrastructure well
you know my views I think we've got to
make sure that we have solutions for the
for the UK that protect UK security and
that's what this government is going to
achieve but I want to stress one thing -
I am a sign oh fail i believe i I think
I I think China is an incredible country
and an extraordinary civilization and I
deeply disapprove of anti-chinese zeniff
obeah attacks on people of Chinese
appearance that we've seen in in in
recent months III we must stamp act such
psychic xenophobia and I see absolute
you know contradiction with what I've
between what I've said earlier about
Hong Kong and about high-risk offenders
in critical national infrastructure and
wanting a good friendly clear-eyed
working relationship with China and
that's what this country will have again
I'll reiterate the advice that the
experts from Sage gave which is that the
measures at the border are most
effective when the incidence is very low
in this country and when applied to
countries which have higher incidence
and the judgment of that time of course
is not something for us it's something
for politicians to make and they make
the policy and they make the timing
decisions but that's the advice that we
gave in terms of the science of this
thanks thanks very much thank you can we
go now - Josh Leighton from the confi
Evening Telegraph the Prime Minister
coronavirus has already taken a bigger
toll on the UK than anywhere else in
Europe what specific reassurances can
you give workers in Coventry especially
in the car manufacturing sector sector
which had been so keen to champion that
they won't suffer the worst economic
fallout as well and - professor with you
and Sir Patrick many parents in Coventry
more what you're telling us that they
are refusing to send their children but
to school at the moment with everything
we have heard this evening about the
alert level and the prospect of local
lock downs doesn't this a cautious
approach prove some right well first
first of all on a Josh on your question
about what we're doing to support the
commentary and the West Midlands the
huge number of businesses have received
grant payments of about 42 million I
thinking in Coventry alone we're
supporting businesses in industry
Enterprise in the West Midlands and I
think 85% of eligible businesses in
Coventry and the West Midlands have
received funding but just you know you
wrench in the car sector one thing we
really want to to drive forward as we as
we come out of the epidemic as we as we
as we bounce back I want to see a lot
more going into green technology green
batteries green motor vehicles low
carbon motor vehicles of all kinds and
we have for instance we've put up at 108
million into the UK battery
industrialization center which is due to
open later this year so we see we and
you know the West Midlands was the home
of the original automotive revolution
that's where it all began the internal
combustion in Russian engine and it's
already in the West Midlands you seeing
an incredible profusion of brilliant
low-carbon technology low carbon
vehicles that's what we want to champion
that's the future I mean on on children
I thought wanting to send their children
to school which I think anyone can
understand why parents are thinking
about this very hard I'm going to give
an answer in the way you would give an
answer as a doctor which is to say if
you're starting a drug if you're
recommending an operation we're doing
anything of that sort
you say look there are some things that
are benefits and there are some things
that are risks and you've got to
understand these and you've got to
understand when is the right time where
the risks and benefits have some form of
balancing out and of course and this is
not my area of expertise and making the
general point children not having their
school education is a huge disadvantage
to them potentially for the rest of
their lives everyone would I think
broadly accept that set against that are
the downsides of going to school in an
epidemic and I think that I'm gonna list
out for the first of which is the risk
to children and I think that one of the
things that is one of the few
reassurances that we can give in this
disease is that overall it looks as if
children are much less likely than
adults to get severe disease and
probably less likely to get clinical
disease meaning symptoms of any sort and
although there are tragically a very
small number of deaths in children and a
slightly larger number of people who've
had severe disease compared to adults
this is not a dangerous disease in the
way that many other infections really
pick our children this disease does not
so this is not a disease which is aimed
which is primarily of risk to children
the second thing is that parents are
particularly primary school children are
generally not in the age group which is
at high risk of getting severe problems
with coronavirus now there are of course
there are people who got particular high
risk medical conditions who are shielded
at the moment and in that situation
there's a different set of concerns and
there's very specific guidance for those
parents but this is not an area in
primary school with very small
proportion of parents of primary school
children are in the or in the age group
where there's high mortality or severe
problems clearly there is a very
complicated balancing act for society in
terms of the possibility of increasing
the transmission and on the one hand and
depriving children of their education on
the other and this is a very hard
balancing act but this is you know this
is where we're trying to as a society
walk between two risks a risk to
education and a risk to health and the
rates of transmission are now much lower
than they were at the point when schools
were closed and then the final thing
that people obviously think about is
grandparents and others who are
potentially at risk and obviously there
is a an issue there which we need to
think through in certain cases and
that's about people taking sensible
decisions so I think you know I fully
understand as everyone for to fully
understand people wanting to think this
through but the point I want to go back
to at the beginning is that the biggest
concern for people is going to be the
health of their children and this is a
disease which can affect children is
very unlikely - compared to adults
thanks very much Chris can we go to mock
over bellow of Roy unit Thank You Prime
Minister actually I must thank you on
behalf of the Foreign Press Association
as well which advocated for a while
access to these daily briefings and here
we are thank you very much Prime
Minister my questions are about the
quarantine because it's not just a
matter of summer all it as hundreds of
thousands of European workers left the
country because of the lockdown because
a shop a shopping centre
restaurant it's
they're all closed so no work anymore
now they are ready to come back so I
just wonder they are not all lucky
workers in an NHS but actually they are
quite essential if you think of any
alternative different way from the
quarantine Alfa certificate or anything
else a second question because you
mentioned the Home Secretary mention as
well air bridges and travel corridors
does it mean that the British government
has got already ongoing bilateral
negotiation with the single European
countries and in case which ones
okay well mark thank you very much only
on the air corridors I don't want to go
into the negotiations that were having
but clearly we're discussing with our
partners around the whole of Europe
about about what could what could be
done continuously as we just as we've
been negotiating the whole time about
movements across borders and it's it's
one of the the most difficult things to
get right and what I'd say to to our
Italian friends it Italian Italians who
have been living lucky in the UK who who
now want to come back I say come back to
tea bed a veloute
you know come back to London or to the
UK but you've got a quarantine and I
don't believe that that is you know
everybody's been being in lockdown for a
long time it's just enough it's an I
know it's an imposition but we've really
got to defeat this virus but we want you
back thank you thank you thank you very
much well listen I just wanna wrap up by
making I will repeat that the key point
of this of this presscon we are seeing
continuous falls in the disease in
deaths in in incidents and that's why
we've been able to take the very
cautious steps that that we have we want
to take some more steps to unlock our
society and try to get back to as normal
as as possible eventually I would like
to do such things as
as reducing the the 2-meter rule for
instance but all those changes all that
future progress depends entirely on our
ability to keep reducing the incidence
and driving down that disease and that
depends on us following the basic rules
washing your hands wash our hands self
isolate if you have symptoms take a test
and of course observe social distancing
thank you all very much we are beating
this disease and we will beat it
together if everybody works on it
together Thank You Prime Minister see
the headlines as they happen and watch
BBC news live in the app and get the
full story with BBC decoder UK forward
slash news follow the story for all the
latest with BBC News